Let's think of a way that we can signal to the user that actually something has happened and we've started
the new blog post into the database or otherwise.
If something went wrong and we weren't able to save it.
So there is a concept called flash messages which would be stored inside the user session and only would
be visible for the next direct request.
So the next request that will come after the one we are storing it inside a flash message so you can
do that using the request session flash.
So here you specify the key of your flash variable can be status and we can say that blog post was created.
Now we only care about the successful status because we haven't get to the validation of the data yet.
We'll do in a bit.
So currently we only signal that something actually was successful and we will create this status variable
inside the session which can be done read.
And after that we'll be destroyed.
So let's think of where we can actually displayed up.
I think that for our simple application which looks like this there is only one labeled and couple of
links we probably have to do that inside the layout.
So here we have our menu and the yield content where we display all the content so we can use the if
statement that we've learned about before.
So let's create a scaffold for the if statement.
And now we can check if the status variable is actually inside the session.
So for this we can use their session helper function and it has a has method.
So let's see if a session has status.
So that's the variable we have created.
We can additionally render something maybe we can even style it with green color of course later.
I'll show you how to use bootstrap but for now let's just do it this way.
And here will just echo the session and to read this variable that we have to start the flash message
we will use the get method so get in the variable name is status.
So now after starting a brand new blog post we'll be creating this stuff to the variable this flash
variable and then reading it only once inside our layout only if it exists.
So we'll only render that if this variable does exist.
So let's post a new blog post created and you can see that our message that the blog post was created
after you refresh it is being deleted.
So it's no longer there now.
There might also be a case where you would like to store this flash variable for more than one request
for like next subsequent request and will not keep that inside the app.
But I will just show you how you can do that.
So we'll need a request object here because we will do that inside our show action and here we have
access to the request which has session and we can do the re flash method call and this will keep the
flash variable for the next request.
So mind not cold out in loops because if you will always call re flash this will be stored forever and
we do not want that.
So now let's check if that works.
So let's add a new blog post doesn't.
So now let's check if that works and create a new blog post.
Doesn't really matter what we type here.
Now it is being created.
We see our flash message and then if you will go to the least of blog posts you still see them as such
but after you refresh it's no longer there.
So I will remove that or maybe comment that out but just so you know how you can keep on message for
one more request.